High Prio
---------

get pi-s running BST / GMT automatically. UTC is a pain with scheduling.

install/lib-perl/Khaospy/ControlsDaemon.pm:180:    # otherwise check the entire hostname # TODO rm this line



email-home-auto.
    pgp encryption.
    send a message to it.
    get a response.

manual-auto-timeout only populates if the manual-auto-timeout is set.


PiGPIO and PiMCP. try and keep state between daemon restarts. reboots would be really hard. restarts maybe possible.
ZMQ messages .encrypt.

DHCP / DNS server.


Pi-Control-D
    use the ControlDispatch.pm. tricky.
    if the gpio or i2c commands fail during initialisation the daemon should die. The ports will not be in the correct state.
    rewrite the relay_manual ex_or and manual-change stuff. Its really hard to follow.


Other-Controls-D ( initially for OrviboS20s )

    remove the rand() in the time checking of the last-poll part.

khaospy-operate-control.pl
    to subscribe to all controllers and listen for the update.
    output like the zmq-subscriber

zmq-subscribe-tool
    to translate the temperatures into their control names and temp.
    be able to filter on a specific control name.
    be able to subscribe to multiple hosts.
        i.e. --host-n-port=pihost:one-wire

fix the Constants.pm $HEATING_DAEMON

one-liner to restart all daemons on a pi.

BoilerDaemon.pm
    nothing todo at present.

QueueCommand.pm
    time out on the zmq-REQ, raise exception.

CommandQueueDaemon.pm :
    nothing todo at present.


General :

    a quick CH Webpage, logins ( httpauth )
        ali, able to control her room.
        amelia able to control her room.
        melissa able to control the front-room.

    make the install script clean up the lib-dirs before scp .
    get to the bottom of if I really want to use the zhelpers subs like zhelpers::s_send.

    daemon locking . only one command-queue, pi-controls, other-controls per host.

    raise proper named exceptions and don't just die.

    make sure logs go to usb stick on the pis.

    ./bin dir and a ./daemons dir. split up what's in bin-dir
    fix the KhaospyControlPiMCP23017.t tests.




The messages to support new fields
    "action_by"  This will currently be :
        Manual ( a plain old wall switch operated it. or something outside khaospy)
        Manual-WebUI ( someone click in the webui )
        Auto-Rules
    So an action knows the classification of what called it.
    last_change_state_by

    Rules will then be able to be subtle.
    i.e. if a light is operated by a manual wall switch then the rules-d can be more subtle.
    The manual_auto_timeout could be deprecated if the rules-D can be made aware of the action_by information.

    ( action_by_user to indicate user-name. do we need this ? )


a way of distributing the confs to all hosts.
    scp / tar . whatever. something quick and easy.

Logging option. Be able to expand , and sort ( like the khaospy-zmq-subscribe.pl ) received JSON messages.
    pi-host level option
    daemon-script level option.


pi-hosts. config checking. make sure there is only :
    one heating-daemon
    one boiler-daemon
    one rules-daemon


make a lead to run thermometers and both i2cs for piserver.

write a cli tool that will summarise the confs nicely .
    pi-hosts
    controls
    one-wire-heating-daemon
    boiler

get HeatingDaemon
    able to use the ControlPi ControlOther stuff..
    make the pi-hosts config die if there is more than one-heating-control-daemon configured.
    although the heating-daemon is now so simple, it will be replaced by the rules-d

status-d
    listens to all things.
    has http rest api
    use AnyEvent.

get piboiler able to run the PC-queue-d.
    try reinstall of dependencies.

In my loft.
    thermometers in my room , kitchen and my loft.
    i2c-controller.

    get the outside thermometer working properly.



write more tests for the the code in Khaospy::PiControlMCP23017


Test that the following stuff works
    pi-gpio-relay
    pi-gpio-relay-manual
        make an ex-or type circuit and test that.

Get the electronic/physical PiMCP23017 interface working




Conf::PiHosts.

    Go over the PiControllerDaemon and CommandQueueDaemon and tidy up. proper exception handling. Try::Tiny. and raise proper exeptions. not dies. give them a name.

Starting writing the PiMCP23017 module . need this  for th alarm switch panel.  with tests. lots of work. ( finish of the PiGPIO first, some of the logic could be shared. )

    daemons need locking. the "/usr/bin/daemon" should do this , but it looked broken recently.

    fix the quoting of CLI params in khaospy-run-daemons.pl

    Khaospy::RRDGraphDaemon
        need an rrd-config. for grouping. maybe.
        use the control config "rrd_graph" for what to graph.
        has to listen to all different message status streams.

    a better way of distributing the /etc/hosts. preferably just go for a DNS server for my local hostnames.

    make boiler on/off with rad states page.

Why are there a lot of tmpfs using up lots of ram on jessie version of raspibian ?



WebUI
-----
    get a site that insists on login. using Dancer2.
    use httpOnly cookies.
    update/insert/delete actions will generate a randon ID that must be used when doing the action.

    2fa. use mobile phone to send a 6 char passcode to when trying to login from an external source. ( i.e. not on the home-lan )




Medium Prio
-----------

Multiway lighting, am I going to program up something in khaospy for Amelia's controller ? Am I going to build a new controller using SSRs ?



does the pi-host.conf need to have valid_i2c_buses ? This can be worked out with an i2c-detect ? maybe I need both. When khaospy actually runs on the host then it can do  an i2c-detect too.


control config. an option for db-logging of state changes. ( already have the rrd_graph option )


Implement for the OrviboS20 : remember the last state, and if its been manually operated by something other than khaospy. just like the PiGPIO relay-manual controls. Useful for "rules". Useful if I use them for light-switches.


pi dns and dhcp server.


pibastion that I can open to the net and just get stats.

Low prio
--------

    onewire sender in perl. low priority. python one is working.

    rrd-creater in perl. low prio. python one is working.
        temp rrds
        switch / relay / control rrds.


    conf-dist-daemon in perl. very low prio. I can do this with tar-over-ssh, scp etc.

    daemon-monitor. long way off. i.e. when I've got the rest of the stuff working, with some sort of webui (or openhab)

